# 2022 Work summary

## January to February: High accuracy RDA interpolation

My first task as a system engineer. The goal was to enhance range/Doppler/DOA measurement accuracy by spectrum interpolation and implement it as a small HWA segment. Previous implementation on Alps was mathematically wrong and yields suboptimal performance, roughly 1/4 bin for range/Doppler interpolation.

A thorough analysis of the problem was delivered, covering accuracy versus window type and parameter, accuracy versus SNR, accuracy due to bias and RMS, high speed signal distortion, etc. (Candan's method was evaluated as an option and discarded due to sensitivivy to high speed signal distortion). Expect below 1/20 bin size accuracy for conventional window, and 1/10 for SVA.

As a by product, details of radar test system was thoroughly analyzed; results have been delivered to solution/STE team to fix previous wrong tests and computations, particulaly on Doppler accuracy measurement.

Looking back, the tasks could have been closed sooner. 3 unworthy weeks were spent on bitwidth optimization simulations. This module is cheap for RTL anyway.

Patent proposal submitted on the outcomes.

## March: DDM sidelobe analysis

DDM solution was validated on Alps and was targeted as the primary solution on Alps Pro. The sidelobe level on Alps, however, was consistently suboptimal, roughly -15dB or less.

The primary contribution was to prove there's a nonlinear effect between channels with a co-prime phase step experiment, suggesting improvement of channel isolation should improve the performance. -35dB sidelobe level has been confirmed on Alps Pro according to solution team.

(Later we learned that digital PS structure and non uniform DDM may provide further improvement)

## April to May: Alps Pro driver development and FPGA validation

This was some pure labor, not much of intellectual challenge. Format top level configuration interface and translate to registers; Run FPGA validation case and match results. Validation was completed on time to ensure timely TO.

## June to July: MBC studies, etc

Work under Ricky's instruction.

* Evaluate resolving capability of frequency tuned waveforms with ambiguity function analysis.
* Demonstrated processing algorithms and evaluate complexity.
* Evaluate solutions for range migration (higher order phase), including DRP and non uniform MBC.
* Evaluate performance of random TDM + IMAT for Doppler ambiguity resolving.
* A fast converging version of IMAT was originated.

3 Patent proposals submitted on the outcomes.

## July to November: Andes baseband validation

Primary task of the year. Some challenges were:

Unclear concept and target. In July no one had a sufficiently clear vision on how Andes BB validation should be done. I reviewed the Cmodel structure and drafted the initial validation items; which later evolved into three phases of validation plan, and generated most of the test vectors.

Cross function communication, particularly with FW team and ASIC team. Andes featured flexibility, thus scheduling its baseband HWA was a big challenge for FW. Test vectors was organized and delivered in a step by step pattern, so that in each step they may focus on scheduling and debugging a handful of new features instead of getting overwhelmed. Coordination with ASIC team was mainly about ensuring test coverage.

Debugging. This goes for both Cmodel and ASIC. Cmodel quality slowed us down a lot: poorly organized of code, coupling of features and configurations, unprotected boundary conditions, all added to insufficient comments. There was at least 27 bug fix commits by me, plus a few assisted by Xuqi, yanqun and xiaolong each; and roughly the same amount of bug fix on ASIC. In some cases, I was engaged in FW/ASIC bugs, since knowing how the data should look like accelerates the process. Looking back now, I probably could have been less supportive for their own troubles...

Gap between Cmodel and product. Cmodel differs from the chip in several important ways: it lacks the corresponding infrastructure of baseband buffer, an almost arbitrarily accessable shared memory between all HWAs; it is not as flexible as ASIC really is, meaning that many test cases had to be glued with python scripts manually; It was not inherently designed to cover cascade cases; Not to mention the poor correspondence of register list, combine engines, etc.

Most of the Cmodel issues were patched in a quick and dirty manner. Therefore I'm all for a through refactor of Cmodel framework before/while we go for Lite.

## October to December: Andes A0 validation

Validation on A0 started early, but a clear plan was only proposed by end of October, which we reviewed together with Hongquan. My idea was to validate the basic features and performances of RF and analog front end, eliminating risky HW bugs. This might resemble more or less the duty of a RF system engineer.

Apart from basic single chip functions, feasibility and basic performance of cascade and MBC solution was verified.

Challenge of A0 test comes in two ways. One was pushing other teams for bug analysis and debugging. I totally agree that having other teams validate their features before system bring up should be helpful, and this might be ensured by our early engagement in their task and consistent preasure on them. The other was to effectively break the task down. This enables division of labor (Which unfortunately was not available this time. Out of the ~30 test items, Tangran and Zhang, zhan each helped me with one. Hopefully we will have more hands on M0 system BU) as well as easy bug identification. With the plan, and many improvised test strategies thereafter, I tried my best to approach a reasonable division of test items.

## December: ATE evaluation for Alps AIP

As mentioned, we are expected to conduct a small experiment, which should decide if a costly ATE test item should be lifted. This is expected to take me a week.

## Self Assessment

My primary tasks of year 2022, Andes baseband and A0 validation, both require cross-function technical capability and communication. These experience helped me expand my vision, familiarize with other function teams, and accumulated project management skill sets. I now take stronger ownership to the overall success of the company, and feel more motivated and confident to coordinate with engineer teams of various background, deeply and effectively, to achieve greater collective success.

## Some other tasks proposed in OKR, but not completed

* Test of frame to frame sync: in September 2021 I spent some time analyzing the frame to frame async issue and pointed to the clock async between FMCW and ADC. Solution has been implemented on Pro. Solution engineers are testing this.

* Evaluation of Pro improvement on Indoor application. Since I had background in industrial solution team, Jiashu asked me if HWA updates of Alps Pro helps improve indoor person tracking and other applications. He probably forgot it.

